It was apparent I'd found a sort of wood speak. I had learned to pick a piece of wood that spoke to me in its imagery and as I painted it, more imagery would come out. I didn't know where I was going with it or what it meant. I only knew I was on a quest and I would trust what ever came next. And somewhere during or after, its meaning would come, all the pieces would fit together and have meaning both for the painting but also for me. It was the growth from the tree that would actually teach me. I would research or think deeply about what I had just painted and found that I was learning from these SPOKEN TREES in so many ways. It was a trust that began with these spiritual beings in a visual way and reached inside me. I was moved by what I saw but further I trusted my voice, that there would be meaning that would come and so SPOKEN TREES was a combination of external and internal trust.

I went on to create and research my ancestry and culture and learned from my paintings, from the trees that whatever I painted, there would be words and  from the flow, knowledge of the happenstance of life. These works on wood were created as "Tree Spirit" was: from the grains produced in its growth cycle and an inner trust that I procured from my center. It seemed that the trees had taught me to trust in me. It was here that I created from, this place of trust in self but also what they gave me and also what my Native teachings taught me. It was a place that had been locked down in protective custody for years. Deep Silence was a place of dreams and remembering and learning.  So I kept quiet and hidden, my spirit was kept intact to be restored at a later time. My grandmother was a great saver. She saved everything my parents broke and discarded. "Spirits Ingrained In Me" was my grandmother's unstinting belief in me as her husband's grandchild. She lived with us for many years and sought to protect my soul so she told me to keep to myself and say nothing. And what could have been broken was now only stored on grannies shelf waiting to be free. Anything they thought was broken, they would later see brand new in her replenished store room; her bedroom. All those words stored up out of the way of the madness that was going on below. I was one of grannies keepsakes. She is now long gone, but her legacy lives on in me. I was fixed to be glued for a time till I learned to trust this voice glued tight. This journey took me to Spoken Trees, where as I would trust the wood grains, my heart, my mind and my voice connected together as one. "Earth Masks" tells the story of learning of self, going inside to see.

As I researched, sometimes even a historically accurate revelation would be revealed, as in "Reflections of 1497". After painting "Reflections of 1497", I pondered its meaning and the symbols which had come out from the wood grains. It looked like a repeated struggle over time that repeated itself. It looked like the struggle that began after a calm. So I researched when Brock 'discovered' our shores. That I completed it 500 years later in 1997, after Brock had landed, confirmed that the repeated struggle on Turtle Island / North America and the incredible footprint left behind was predestined to be. This journey of trust, paint, learn, trust, write and learn is trust at its most rudimentary level. Fear went out of the equation when I came home and found my heritage. Being raised in a context of fear for that is the reason for control, I no longer needed to control my environment. Control was seen as a cage and trust the freedom. Spoken Trees was the ultimate I had ever experienced in Freedom; Freedom to learn what I chose, to explore whatever came out without censor, to flow, to fall and never get hurt.

I'd create and then learn the meaning of what I had created, for whatever I painted, it seemed the trees spoke some truth, some teaching in my life to come, or what had just come or what was from a historical perspective and I trusted myself and the spiritual realm to know what truth it was that needed to be spoken. More exactly, what I felt was at its core. I found I was having a spiritual relationship with the wood as I would respect its voice and there would be a sort of dance. I would be painting and a sort of dialogue, where while I saw the images I would continue until I could not see them anymore so I would respect that this dialogue had stopped for now, and I would set the painting aside and leave it for a while and start another who spoke to me. Until of course it did not and then I'd move on to another who spoke to me, now with 2 set aside waiting for the next brush-word, sometimes I would be working on eight or nine separate pieces at one time. Going back to earlier ones who had reengaged me in their dialogue until all the trees had spoken and were then silent, they would be ready for articulation. Sometimes this articulation took place during the painting phase where I would be forced to put down my brush and pick up a pen and write the inspired words that went with this certain piece. Spoken Trees had taken me full circle, where I would learn the meaning behind what I had created and this inner voice was heard and this learning of this new media and my culture and my freed voice spanned two years for it captured me entirely.
